README.md, before:

# gulp-notify [![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url] [![Dependency Status][depstat-image]][depstat-url]

> notification plugin for [gulp](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp)

## Information
| Package       | gulp-notify  |
| ------------- |--------------|
| Description   | Send messages to Mac Notification Center or Linux notifications (using `notify-send`) using the [node-notifier](https://github.com/mikaelbr/node-notifier) module. Can also [specify custom notifier](#notifywithreporterfunction) (e.g. Growl notification). |
| Node Version  | >= 0.8      |
| Package Version  | 1.0.0-beta     |

**Note: Without overriding the notifier, Mac OS X >= 10.8 or as of v0.3.2, Linux with `notify-send` installed is required for this to run.**

## Usage

First, install `gulp-notify` as a development dependency:

```shell
npm install --save-dev gulp-notify
```

Then, add it to your `gulpfile.js`:

```javascript

var notify = require("gulp-notify");
gulp.src("./src/test.ext")
  .pipe(notify("Hello Gulp!"));
```

Or with template


```javascript

var notify = require("gulp-notify");
gulp.src("./src/test.ext")
  .pipe(notify("Found file: <%= file.relative %>!"));
```

See [examples](examples/gulpfile.js) for more og the API section for various inputs.

## Notes/tip

`gulp-notify` passes on the `vinyl files` even on error. So if you are
using [`gulp-plumber`](https://github.com/floatdrop/gulp-plumber) the run
will not break if the notifier returns an error.

If you want to notify on errors [`gulp-plumber`](https://github.com/floatdrop/gulp-plumber)
can be used to not break the run and force you to have to restart gulp.

## API

### notify(String)

A message to notify per data on stream.
The string can be a lodash template as
it is passed through [gulp-util.template](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#templatestring-data).

### notify(Function)
Type: `function(VinylFile)`  

The result of the function is used as message.
Vinyl File from gulp stream passed in as argument.

The returned string can be a lodash template as 
it is passed through [gulp-util.template](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#templatestring-data).

### notify(options)

#### options.onLast
Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`

If the notification should only happen on the last file 
of the stream. Per default a notification is triggered
on each file.


#### options.message
Type: `String`  
Default: File path in stream

The message you wish to attach to file. The string can be a
lodash template as it is passed through [gulp-util.template](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#templatestring-data).

Example: `Created <%= file.relative %>`.

##### as function
Type: `Function(vinylFile)`  

See `notify(Function)`.

#### options.title
Type: `String`  
Default: "Gulp Notification"

The title of the notification. The string can be a
lodash template as it is passed through [gulp-util.template](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#templatestring-data).

Example: `Created <%= file.relative %>`.

##### as function
Type: `Function(vinylFile)`  

See `notify(Function)`.

#### options.templateOptions
Type: `Object`  
Default: {}

Object passed to the `lodash` template, for additional properties passed to the template.

Examples:

```javascript
gulp.src("../test/fixtures/*")
    .pipe(notify({
      message: "Generated file: <%= file.relative %> @ <%= options.date %>",
      templateOptions: {
        date: new Date()
      }
    }))
```

#### options.notifier
Type: `Function(options, callback)`  
Default: node-notifier module

Swap out the notifier by passing in an function. 
The function expects two arguments: options and callback.

The callback must be called when the notification is finished. Options
will contain both title and message.

*See `notify.withReporter` for syntactic sugar.*


### notify.withReporter(Function)
Type: `Reporter`

Wraps `options.notifier` to return a new notify-function only using
the passed in reporter.

Example:

```javascript
var custom = notify.withReporter(function (options, callback) {
  console.log("Title:", options.title);
  console.log("Message:", options.message);
  callback();
});

gulp.src("../test/fixtures/1.txt")
    .pipe(custom("This is a message."));

```

This will be the same as

```javascript

gulp.src("../test/fixtures/1.txt")
    .pipe(notify({
      message: "This is a message."
      notifier: function (options, callback) {
        console.log("Title:", options.title);
        console.log("Message:", options.message);
        callback();
      }
    }));
```

But much, much prettier.


### notify.onError()

The exact same API as using `notify()`, but where a `vinyl File`
is passed, the error object is passed instead.

Example:

```javascript
gulp.src("../test/fixtures/*")
      .pipe(through(function () {
        this.emit("error", new Error("Something happend: Error message!"))
      }))
      .on("error", notify.onError(function (error) {
        return "Message to the notifier: " + error.message;
      }));
```

Or simply:

```javascript
gulp.src("../test/fixtures/*")
      .pipe(through(function () {
        this.emit("error", new Error("Something happend: Error message!"))
      }))
      .on("error", notify.onError("Error: <%= error.message %>"));
```

```javascript
gulp.src("../test/fixtures/*")
      .pipe(through(function () {
        this.emit("error", new Error("Something happend: Error message!"))
      }))
      .on("error", notify.onError({
        message: "Error: <%= error.message %>",
        title: "Error running something"
      }));
```

The `onError()` end point does not support `lodash.template`.

### notify.logLevel(level)
Type: `Integer`  
Default: `2`

Set if logger should be used or not. If log level is set to 0,
no logging will be used. If no new log level is passed, the 
current log level is returned.

* `0`: No logging
* `1`: Log on error
* `2`: Log both on error and regular notification.

If logging is set to `> 0`, the title and
message passed to `gulp-notify` will be logged like so:

```sh
➜  gulp-notify git:(master) ✗ gulp --gulpfile examples/gulpfile.js one
[gulp] Using file /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples/gulpfile.js
[gulp] Working directory changed to /Users/example/repos/gulp-notify/examples
[gulp] Running 'one'...
[gulp] Finished 'one' in 4.08 ms
[gulp] gulp-notify: [Gulp notification] /Users/example/gulp-notify/test/fixtures/1.txt
```

## Examples

To see all examples run from root:

```shell
$ gulp --gulpfile examples/gulpfile.js --tasks
[gulp] Using file /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples/gulpfile.js
[gulp] Working directory changed to /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples
[gulp] Tasks for /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples/gulpfile.js
[gulp] ├── multiple
[gulp] ├── one
[gulp] ├── message
[gulp] ├── customReporter
[gulp] ├── template
[gulp] ├── templateadv
[gulp] ├── function
[gulp] ├── onlast
[gulp] ├── error
[gulp] └── customError
```

To run an example:
```shell
$ gulp --gulpfile examples/gulpfile.js multiple
[gulp] Using file /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples/gulpfile.js
[gulp] Working directory changed to /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples
[gulp] Running 'multiple'...
[gulp] Finished 'multiple' in 3.75 ms
```

## Changelog

### `v1.0.0-beta`
1. Major rewrites and restructure in code
2. Lock down on API, changes `setLogLevel` to `logLevel`
3. Exposes logLevel and logger on the withReporter object.

### `v0.6.2`
1. Adds another logging level: 0 - none, 1 - error, 2 - all.

### `v0.6.1`
1. Added `.onError` method on object created by `withReporter`
2. Added colored logging on success / error

### `v0.5.0`
1. Added API end point `notify.withReporter(Reporter)` as syntactic suger for custom reporter
2. Updated dependency for node-notfier - now checking if `notify-send` is installed on the Linux box


## License

[MIT License](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License)

[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/gulp-notify
[npm-image]: https://badge.fury.io/js/gulp-notify.png

[travis-url]: http://travis-ci.org/mikaelbr/gulp-notify
[travis-image]: https://secure.travis-ci.org/mikaelbr/gulp-notify.png?branch=master

[depstat-url]: https://david-dm.org/mikaelbr/gulp-notify
[depstat-image]: https://david-dm.org/mikaelbr/gulp-notify.png

Commit message:

Updates readme to reflect windows support.

README.md, after:

# gulp-notify [![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url] [![Dependency Status][depstat-image]][depstat-url]

> notification plugin for [gulp](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp)

## Information
| Package       | gulp-notify  |
| ------------- |--------------|
| Description   | Send messages to Mac Notification Center or Linux notifications (using `notify-send`) using the [node-notifier](https://github.com/mikaelbr/node-notifier) module or Growl if not any of them. Can also [specify custom notifier](#notifywithreporterfunction). |
| Node Version  | >= 0.8      |
| Package Version  | 1.1.0     |

**Note: Without overriding the notifier, Mac OS X >= 10.8 or as of v0.3.2, Linux with `notify-send` installed is required for this to run.**
**After version `1.1.0` this now supports Growl natively.**

## Usage

First, install `gulp-notify` as a development dependency:

```shell
npm install --save-dev gulp-notify
```

Then, add it to your `gulpfile.js`:

```javascript

var notify = require("gulp-notify");
gulp.src("./src/test.ext")
  .pipe(notify("Hello Gulp!"));
```

Or with template


```javascript

var notify = require("gulp-notify");
gulp.src("./src/test.ext")
  .pipe(notify("Found file: <%= file.relative %>!"));
```

See [examples](examples/gulpfile.js) for more og the API section for various inputs.

## Notes/tip

`gulp-notify` passes on the `vinyl files` even on error. So if you are
using [`gulp-plumber`](https://github.com/floatdrop/gulp-plumber) the run
will not break if the notifier returns an error.

If you want to notify on errors [`gulp-plumber`](https://github.com/floatdrop/gulp-plumber)
can be used to not break the run and force you to have to restart gulp.

## API

### notify(String)

A message to notify per data on stream.
The string can be a lodash template as
it is passed through [gulp-util.template](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#templatestring-data).

### notify(Function)
Type: `function(VinylFile)`  

The result of the function is used as message.
Vinyl File from gulp stream passed in as argument.

The returned string can be a lodash template as
it is passed through [gulp-util.template](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#templatestring-data).

### notify(options)

*Options are passed onto the reporter, so on Windows, you can define
Growl host and so on. See [node-notifier](https://github.com/mikaelbr/node-notifier)
for more information*

#### options.onLast
Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`

If the notification should only happen on the last file
of the stream. Per default a notification is triggered
on each file.


#### options.message
Type: `String`  
Default: File path in stream

The message you wish to attach to file. The string can be a
lodash template as it is passed through [gulp-util.template](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#templatestring-data).

Example: `Created <%= file.relative %>`.

##### as function
Type: `Function(vinylFile)`  

See `notify(Function)`.

#### options.title
Type: `String`  
Default: "Gulp Notification"

The title of the notification. The string can be a
lodash template as it is passed through [gulp-util.template](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#templatestring-data).

Example: `Created <%= file.relative %>`.

##### as function
Type: `Function(vinylFile)`  

See `notify(Function)`.

#### options.templateOptions
Type: `Object`  
Default: {}

Object passed to the `lodash` template, for additional properties passed to the template.

Examples:

```javascript
gulp.src("../test/fixtures/*")
    .pipe(notify({
      message: "Generated file: <%= file.relative %> @ <%= options.date %>",
      templateOptions: {
        date: new Date()
      }
    }))
```

#### options.notifier
Type: `Function(options, callback)`  
Default: node-notifier module

Swap out the notifier by passing in an function.
The function expects two arguments: options and callback.

The callback must be called when the notification is finished. Options
will contain both title and message.

*See `notify.withReporter` for syntactic sugar.*


### notify.withReporter(Function)
Type: `Reporter`

Wraps `options.notifier` to return a new notify-function only using
the passed in reporter.

Example:

```javascript
var custom = notify.withReporter(function (options, callback) {
  console.log("Title:", options.title);
  console.log("Message:", options.message);
  callback();
});

gulp.src("../test/fixtures/1.txt")
    .pipe(custom("This is a message."));

```

This will be the same as

```javascript

gulp.src("../test/fixtures/1.txt")
    .pipe(notify({
      message: "This is a message."
      notifier: function (options, callback) {
        console.log("Title:", options.title);
        console.log("Message:", options.message);
        callback();
      }
    }));
```

But much, much prettier.


### notify.onError()

The exact same API as using `notify()`, but where a `vinyl File`
is passed, the error object is passed instead.

Example:

```javascript
gulp.src("../test/fixtures/*")
      .pipe(through(function () {
        this.emit("error", new Error("Something happend: Error message!"))
      }))
      .on("error", notify.onError(function (error) {
        return "Message to the notifier: " + error.message;
      }));
```

Or simply:

```javascript
gulp.src("../test/fixtures/*")
      .pipe(through(function () {
        this.emit("error", new Error("Something happend: Error message!"))
      }))
      .on("error", notify.onError("Error: <%= error.message %>"));
```

```javascript
gulp.src("../test/fixtures/*")
      .pipe(through(function () {
        this.emit("error", new Error("Something happend: Error message!"))
      }))
      .on("error", notify.onError({
        message: "Error: <%= error.message %>",
        title: "Error running something"
      }));
```

The `onError()` end point does not support `lodash.template`.

### notify.logLevel(level)
Type: `Integer`  
Default: `2`

Set if logger should be used or not. If log level is set to 0,
no logging will be used. If no new log level is passed, the
current log level is returned.

* `0`: No logging
* `1`: Log on error
* `2`: Log both on error and regular notification.

If logging is set to `> 0`, the title and
message passed to `gulp-notify` will be logged like so:

```sh
➜  gulp-notify git:(master) ✗ gulp --gulpfile examples/gulpfile.js one
[gulp] Using file /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples/gulpfile.js
[gulp] Working directory changed to /Users/example/repos/gulp-notify/examples
[gulp] Running 'one'...
[gulp] Finished 'one' in 4.08 ms
[gulp] gulp-notify: [Gulp notification] /Users/example/gulp-notify/test/fixtures/1.txt
```

## Examples

To see all examples run from root:

```shell
$ gulp --gulpfile examples/gulpfile.js --tasks
[gulp] Using file /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples/gulpfile.js
[gulp] Working directory changed to /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples
[gulp] Tasks for /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples/gulpfile.js
[gulp] ├── multiple
[gulp] ├── one
[gulp] ├── message
[gulp] ├── customReporter
[gulp] ├── template
[gulp] ├── templateadv
[gulp] ├── function
[gulp] ├── onlast
[gulp] ├── error
[gulp] └── customError
```

To run an example:
```shell
$ gulp --gulpfile examples/gulpfile.js multiple
[gulp] Using file /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples/gulpfile.js
[gulp] Working directory changed to /Users/example/gulp-notify/examples
[gulp] Running 'multiple'...
[gulp] Finished 'multiple' in 3.75 ms
```

## Changelog

### `v1.0.0-beta`
1. Major rewrites and restructure in code
2. Lock down on API, changes `setLogLevel` to `logLevel`
3. Exposes logLevel and logger on the withReporter object.

### `v0.6.2`
1. Adds another logging level: 0 - none, 1 - error, 2 - all.

### `v0.6.1`
1. Added `.onError` method on object created by `withReporter`
2. Added colored logging on success / error

### `v0.5.0`
1. Added API end point `notify.withReporter(Reporter)` as syntactic suger for custom reporter
2. Updated dependency for node-notfier - now checking if `notify-send` is installed on the Linux box


## License

[MIT License](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License)

[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/gulp-notify
[npm-image]: https://badge.fury.io/js/gulp-notify.png

[travis-url]: http://travis-ci.org/mikaelbr/gulp-notify
[travis-image]: https://secure.travis-ci.org/mikaelbr/gulp-notify.png?branch=master

[depstat-url]: https://david-dm.org/mikaelbr/gulp-notify
[depstat-image]: https://david-dm.org/mikaelbr/gulp-notify.png
